# Mohit_Portfolio
Data Science Portfolio

# [Project 1: Classifying fraudulent detection of credit card: Project Overview] (https://github.com/Mohit2804/ML-Classification-Technique)
In this project, the primary focus is to perform Classification on fraud of credit card, by analysing whether the transaction is a fraud or a genuine payment and four classification technique are performed and compared between fraud and non-fraud payment of credit card by applying logistic regression, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, support vector machines algorithm and decision tree algorithm. Covering Splitting process, Imbalance class problems, Random Under-sampling, distribution and correlating, and Anomaly detection by implementing different techniques of data preparation. All the algorithms and techniques were performed in Python programming language with the help of Machine learning repository. As the dataset is imbalance, we need to balance fraud and non-fraud transactions, visualize it in the form graph and get the best accuracy.


# [Project 2: Assessment of Streamflow Simulations under Drought Risk Projections in Indian River Basin Ganga using Bayesian Model Averaging and Sarima Method: Project Overview] (https://github.com/Mohit2804/BMA-SARIMA)
In this project, we will evaluate streamflow simulations under drought conditions experienced by Indian river basin Ganga. Drought challenges include all parts of meteorological, agricultural, and hydrologic droughts. Many government officials who are responsible for drought analysis had come up with very vital and advanced technique which is called SARIMA and BMA for linear regression models. With fairly minor corresponding errors, the BMA approach could improve the presentation of the marginal distribution of hydrological variables and SARIMA is substantially more effective at forecasting complicated data spaces with cycles because it incorporates seasonality as a variable.. In this project, the marginal distribution function of the variables was calculated using the BMA technique.Our primary goal is using the Bayesian Model Averaging Method to anticipate streamflow simulations under drought threats. We have utilised this advanced technique in our project and tried to get the best future predictions of drought problems in ganga river approximately few years ahead. More advanced techniques have been introduced for drought analysis which help to give quite more accurate future predictions. These future predictions will help the government, farmers, society, industries, etc. to take prior precautions.


# [Project 3: Data modelling, SQL programming and parallel processing: Project Overview] (https://github.com/Mohit2804/Data-Management)
In this project, I have solved queries using some SQL Question Statments.


# [Project 4: Rebuilding images using CNN and Autoencoders: Project Overview] (https://github.com/Mohit2804/Machine-Learning-Image-Classification-Technique)
In this project, the main objective is to implement image classification problem by rebuilding images using CNN (Convolutional Neural Networks) and Autoencoders. To reduce the streams of the data, in order to provide the data to the users physically we will be using two compression techniques which is Lossy and lossless for Autoencoders. To rebuild the images, we will decompose the image and re-present it in 32-vector code using Autoencoders. We will be using CNN to recognize or detect the face in the images. All methods and algorithms have been executed in the Python programming language using Artificial Neural Network archive. As the dataset has lots of images, we need to reshape the data and data splitting into training and testing, Visualizing it in the graph format and then get the better outcome and the least loss.


# [Project 5: Implementation of Topic Modelling on Amazon Musical Instrument Reviews using PySpark and SparkNLP: Project Overview] (https://github.com/Mohit2804/Machine-Learning-Natural-Language-Processing)
A Topic Modelling is a type of statistical model in machine learning and natural language processing to discover the abstract "topics" that occur in a set of documents. The dataset which we are using for Topic Modelling is Amazon Musical Instruments reviews corpus and will try to find the hidden topics from the corpus. In this study, the topic modelling algorithm which we have implemented is Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). The Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is an example of a topic model and is used to categorise text into a specific topic in a document. The open source software that I am planning to work with is PySpark and SparkNLP.
